hi this Sean Perry with vintage rock
calm here at NAMM 2009 we're here at the
Dean guitars booth
with buddy blaze and CEO Elliot Rubin
s'en and we're talking about buddy's new
guitar the buddy blaze signature ml is
that correct buddy blaze Dean ml and
signature model that we did together
this year and thanks to Elliot a dream
come true a dream come true this is
something I've been wanting to do Darryl
and I both had dreams years ago about
having our own Dean model someday yeah
oh yeah yeah I'm sorry III didn't know
him his dime Darryl anyway yeah dumbek
yeah well Elliot and I met unfortunately
the event wasn't so great but it was a
great day that we met at Darryl's
funeral and struck up an immediate
friendship and you know shared a lot of
stories and and and and there's a lot of
history and but one thing that that's
never wavered is you know Darryl and I
had one thing in common with her
absolute love of the Dean mmm
and it's to me it's one of the greatest
guitar designs I've ever seen
visually it's just unbelievable you
can't help but feel cool when you're
playing a guitar like that I mean you
know I used to have like really thick
glasses and horn-rimmed and short hair
and buck teeth and I got me a D nml he
got better all of a sudden tell us about
some of the features on this guitar well
one of the things that I'm known for is
you know I made this guitar years back
called the Kramer night swan it started
out as the buddy blade shredder and then
Vivian and I went to Kramer guitars and
released it as a model called the night
Swan and we moved the pickup to the
middle position here now what that does
is gives you a little more know
definition there you know it's it's just
more this isn't this is a you know a
drag race guitar you know it's a Top
Fuel funny car of guitars you know this
it doesn't have brakes it's just got a
accelerator you know what I mean it just
goes fast and and another feature that
we have is we have the three degree neck
angle on it which is you know that's
that's pretty much the only model doing
that at this point in time right
yeah and and this will pull up as much
as any Floyd on you know that has the
what I call the ashtray recess on it
without the recess and I just visually I
think that's identified with somebody
else and I like I like the top mount and
and but there's another reason it makes
the guitar infinitely more comfortable
to play it really does it lifts the
strings a little bit off the body we can
raise the pickups a little bit but we
also have a longer spring block which is
a longer lever which actually loosens
the action I mean look at how you can
flutter that guy you know it's
unbelievable you can pull you could pull
up forever I mean here pull up on that
you've grabbed one of these before
forever forever no fretting out you know
and so this is really for the guy you
know it's it's meant to kick ass you
guys really know
I think that the ml has become an iconic
guitar kind of like the Fender
Stratocaster or less fall in the ml
shape thanks to Darrell has been held
over all the years that the company was
out of business you know he kept that
guitar alive and I think that coupled
with buddy's innovations such as you
know the pickup configuration he talked
about top mounts Lloyd the three degree
the waterfall inlays in the neck the
graphic the chrome graphic I mean it's
just very different from anything we
build 24-fret
and I think that players when they
picked this up and feel it they're gonna
see the difference on this guitar you
really play it really sounds great in
the blades bucker that we designed for
this guitar with buddy this pickup just
screams and I think you plug it in it's
immediately apparent plug the guitar in
that's just the first thing out of my
mouth was it screams tone I've never
said that my life and you know the thing
is his truth is truth and it just comes
out of your mouth you know what I mean
and and my feeling about the DMT pickups
is they scream tone the sky Pat Baker
that the the you know Elliott has making
and winding these pickups in Tampa he's
got the goods he's got the goods and
he's a force to be reckoned with in the
future and and that is truly honestly
you know how excited I am about this
pickup I wanted there's two things I
wanted for years you know I'm one of the
guys that helped launch the full shred
from Seymour and and at the end of the
day when our mission was to have this
eat the full shreds lunch and I'm
telling you it gets dessert too you know
it's awesome
another big point of this is that
there's only 300 of these
made so 300 people worldwide who get
this guitar so if you buy one of these
you're really getting something that's
limited it's not going to be
mass-produced like some of our
competitors have built thousands of
guitars you're really gonna have
something that's collectible we're going
to be doing more guitars with buddy this
is the first one the first one is always
the most valuable and you know it comes
with KSAT a street price of only $9.99
but for a guitar like this it was made
in America it would be two and a half
times that price I think that people who
get in try it will love it consider this
these are hand well great great pickups
this is an original floyd rose not a
license
I mean Elliott and I when we sat down I
was really adamant there are certain
points this is a total redesign you know
one thing that you and I are trying to
get the message out this is not a
graphic and a throw a pickup in the
middle and we're done this is a complete
redesign and Elliott went through all
the steps you know what one I had the
vision I'd build guitars designed for a
living I had the vision I knew exactly
how this is going to turn out if it was
done right and it was done right and I
couldn't be more pleased and and the
thing is that there were certain things
I wouldn't back off on ofr absolutely
essential
you know dmt pickups absolutely
essential but we hadn't even created the
place buckler yet and we went one yeah
it didn't take too many pickups to get
there but Pat you know he has that
ability that that somebody who really as
a guitar guy has he has that ability to
take a sentence and turn it into a tone